.TH OPEN-MAINFRAME 1 "February 2026" "OpenMainframe 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
open-mainframe \- mainframe COBOL compiler and JCL interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B open-mainframe
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B open-mainframe
is a mainframe emulator that provides COBOL compilation, JCL interpretation,
and dataset management capabilities for running legacy mainframe workloads
on modern Linux systems.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output for debugging.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help information.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version information.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B compile
Compile a COBOL source file to native code. See \fBopen-mainframe-compile\fR(1).
.TP
.B run
Execute a JCL job. See \fBopen-mainframe-run\fR(1).
.TP
.B check
Parse and validate COBOL syntax without compiling. See \fBopen-mainframe-check\fR(1).
.TP
.B interpret
Run a COBOL program using the interpreter (no compilation).
.TP
.B lex
Display COBOL tokens for debugging.
.TP
.B parse-jcl
Parse JCL and display the job structure.
.TP
.B gdg
Manage Generation Data Groups. See \fBopen-mainframe-gdg\fR(1).
.TP
.B idcams
Execute IDCAMS commands for dataset management. See \fBopen-mainframe-idcams\fR(1).
.TP
.B config
Manage configuration settings.
.TP
.B completions
Generate shell completion scripts.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B OPEN_MAINFRAME_SOURCE_FORMAT
Source format: fixed, free, or auto (default: auto).
.TP
.B OPEN_MAINFRAME_COPYBOOK_PATH
Colon-separated list of copybook search paths.
.TP
.B OPEN_MAINFRAME_OPTIMIZATION
Optimization level 0-3 (default: 0).
.TP
.B OPEN_MAINFRAME_DATASET_DIR
Base directory for dataset files.
.TP
.B OPEN_MAINFRAME_PROGRAM_DIR
Directory for compiled programs.
.TP
.B OPEN_MAINFRAME_WORK_DIR
Working directory for job execution.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ./open-mainframe.toml
Project configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.config/open-mainframe/config.toml
User configuration file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Compile a COBOL program:
.B open-mainframe compile program.cbl -o program
.TP
Run a JCL job:
.B open-mainframe run job.jcl
.TP
Check COBOL syntax:
.B open-mainframe check program.cbl
.TP
Create a GDG:
.B open-mainframe gdg create MY.GDG --limit 5
.TP
Run IDCAMS command:
.B open-mainframe idcams exec "LISTCAT ENTRIES(MY.DATASET)"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR open-mainframe-compile (1),
.BR open-mainframe-run (1),
.BR open-mainframe-check (1),
.BR open-mainframe-gdg (1),
.BR open-mainframe-idcams (1)
.SH AUTHORS
OpenMainframe Contributors
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/toreleon/OpenMainframe/issues
