.TH OPEN-MAINFRAME-GDG 1 "February 2026" "OpenMainframe 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
open-mainframe-gdg \- manage Generation Data Groups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B open-mainframe gdg
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Manage Generation Data Groups (GDGs), which are collections of related
datasets with automatic versioning. GDGs are commonly used for backup
and archival datasets where multiple generations need to be maintained.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B create \fINAME\fR
Create a new GDG base.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-limit " " \fIN\fR
Maximum number of generations to retain (default: 5).
.TP
.BR \-\-scratch
Delete files when they roll off (default behavior).
.TP
.BR \-\-noscratch
Uncatalog but do not delete rolled-off generations.
.TP
.BR \-\-dataset\-dir " " \fIDIR\fR
Base directory for datasets.
.RE
.TP
.B list \fINAME\fR
List all generations in a GDG.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-dataset\-dir " " \fIDIR\fR
Base directory for datasets.
.RE
.TP
.B delete \fINAME\fR
Delete a GDG and optionally all its generations.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-force
Delete all generations, not just the base.
.TP
.BR \-\-dataset\-dir " " \fIDIR\fR
Base directory for datasets.
.RE
.TP
.B new-gen \fINAME\fR
Create a new generation in the GDG.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-dataset\-dir " " \fIDIR\fR
Base directory for datasets.
.RE
.SH GENERATION REFERENCES
GDG generations can be referenced using:
.TP
.B Relative references
.B (+1)
next generation (for creation),
.B (0)
current generation,
.B (-1)
previous generation.
.TP
.B Absolute references
.B GxxxxVyy
format where xxxx is the generation number (0001-9999)
and yy is the version (00-99). Example: G0001V00.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create a GDG with 10 generation limit:
.B open-mainframe gdg create MY.BACKUP.GDG --limit 10
.TP
List generations:
.B open-mainframe gdg list MY.BACKUP.GDG
.TP
Create a new generation:
.B open-mainframe gdg new-gen MY.BACKUP.GDG
.TP
Delete GDG and all generations:
.B open-mainframe gdg delete MY.BACKUP.GDG --force
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR open-mainframe (1),
.BR open-mainframe-idcams (1)
.SH AUTHORS
OpenMainframe Contributors
