.TH OPEN-MAINFRAME-RUN 1 "February 2026" "OpenMainframe 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
open-mainframe-run \- execute JCL jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B open-mainframe run
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Execute a JCL (Job Control Language) job file. The interpreter processes
JOB, EXEC, and DD statements to run programs and manage datasets.
.PP
Built-in programs include SORT, DFSORT, ICEMAN for sorting operations,
and IDCAMS for dataset catalog management.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-program\-dir " " \fIDIR\fR
Directory containing compiled programs. Programs referenced in EXEC
statements are searched in this directory.
.TP
.BR \-\-dataset\-dir " " \fIDIR\fR
Base directory for dataset files. DD statements without absolute paths
resolve relative to this directory.
.TP
.BR \-\-work\-dir " " \fIDIR\fR
Working directory for job execution. Temporary files and job output
are created here.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B OPEN_MAINFRAME_PROGRAM_DIR
Default program directory if \-\-program\-dir not specified.
.TP
.B OPEN_MAINFRAME_DATASET_DIR
Default dataset directory if \-\-dataset\-dir not specified.
.TP
.B OPEN_MAINFRAME_WORK_DIR
Default work directory if \-\-work\-dir not specified.
.SH JCL SUPPORT
The interpreter supports the following JCL statements:
.TP
.B JOB
Job header with job name and optional parameters.
.TP
.B EXEC
Execute a program or procedure.
.TP
.B DD
Data Definition for datasets. Supports:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
DSN - Dataset name
.IP \(bu 2
DISP - Disposition (NEW, OLD, SHR, MOD)
.IP \(bu 2
DCB - Data Control Block (RECFM, LRECL, BLKSIZE)
.IP \(bu 2
AMP - Access Method Parameters for VSAM
.RE
.TP
.B IF/THEN/ELSE/ENDIF
Conditional execution based on step return codes.
.TP
.B SET
Set symbolic parameters.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run a JCL job:
.B open-mainframe run job.jcl
.TP
Specify directories:
.B open-mainframe run job.jcl --program-dir ./bin --dataset-dir ./data
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR open-mainframe (1),
.BR open-mainframe-compile (1),
.BR open-mainframe-idcams (1)
.SH AUTHORS
OpenMainframe Contributors
