.TH OPEN-MAINFRAME-IDCAMS 1 "February 2026" "OpenMainframe 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
open-mainframe-idcams \- execute IDCAMS commands for dataset management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B open-mainframe idcams
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Execute IDCAMS (Access Method Services) commands for catalog and dataset
management. IDCAMS provides functionality for creating, deleting, copying,
and managing VSAM datasets and GDGs.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B run
Read IDCAMS commands from standard input. Use Ctrl+D to execute.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-dataset\-dir " " \fIDIR\fR
Base directory for datasets.
.RE
.TP
.B exec \fICOMMAND\fR
Execute a single IDCAMS command provided as an argument.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-dataset\-dir " " \fIDIR\fR
Base directory for datasets.
.RE
.TP
.B file \fIFILE\fR
Execute IDCAMS commands from a file.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-dataset\-dir " " \fIDIR\fR
Base directory for datasets.
.RE
.SH IDCAMS COMMANDS
The following IDCAMS commands are supported:
.TP
.B DEFINE CLUSTER
Create a VSAM cluster. Parameters:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
NAME(dsname) - Dataset name (required)
.IP \(bu 2
INDEXED | NONINDEXED | NUMBERED - Cluster type
.IP \(bu 2
KEYS(length offset) - Key specification for KSDS
.IP \(bu 2
RECORDSIZE(avg max) - Record size
.IP \(bu 2
VOLUMES(volser) - Volume serial
.RE
.TP
.B DEFINE GDG
Create a GDG base. Parameters:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
NAME(dsname) - GDG base name (required)
.IP \(bu 2
LIMIT(n) - Generation limit
.IP \(bu 2
SCRATCH | NOSCRATCH - Rolloff behavior
.IP \(bu 2
EMPTY | NOEMPTY - Empty GDG option
.RE
.TP
.B DELETE
Delete a dataset or GDG. Parameters:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
entry-name - Name to delete
.IP \(bu 2
PURGE - Override retention
.IP \(bu 2
FORCE - Delete GDG with generations
.RE
.TP
.B ALTER
Modify dataset attributes. Parameters:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
entry-name - Name to alter
.IP \(bu 2
NEWNAME(name) - Rename dataset
.RE
.TP
.B LISTCAT
List catalog entries. Parameters:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
ENTRIES(name) | LEVEL(hlq) - Selection criteria
.IP \(bu 2
ALL - Show all attributes
.RE
.TP
.B PRINT
Display dataset contents. Parameters:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
INDATASET(name) - Dataset to print
.IP \(bu 2
CHARACTER | HEX - Output format
.IP \(bu 2
SKIP(n) - Skip first n records
.IP \(bu 2
COUNT(n) - Print n records
.RE
.TP
.B REPRO
Copy a dataset. Parameters:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
INDATASET(name) - Source dataset
.IP \(bu 2
OUTDATASET(name) - Target dataset
.IP \(bu 2
FROMKEY(key) TOKEY(key) - Key range filter
.RE
.TP
.B VERIFY
Check VSAM cluster integrity. Parameters:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
DATASET(name) - Cluster to verify
.RE
.SH CONTINUATION
Long commands can be continued across lines by ending a line with a hyphen:
.PP
.nf
  DEFINE CLUSTER -
    (NAME(MY.VSAM.FILE) -
     INDEXED -
     KEYS(10 0))
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create a KSDS:
.B open-mainframe idcams exec "DEFINE CLUSTER(NAME(MY.DATA) INDEXED KEYS(10 0))"
.TP
List catalog entries:
.B open-mainframe idcams exec "LISTCAT LEVEL(MY)"
.TP
Copy a dataset:
.B open-mainframe idcams exec "REPRO INDATASET(MY.OLD) OUTDATASET(MY.NEW)"
.TP
Execute commands from file:
.B open-mainframe idcams file commands.txt
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All commands successful.
.TP
.B 4
Warning conditions occurred.
.TP
.B 8
Errors occurred.
.TP
.B 12
Severe errors occurred.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR open-mainframe (1),
.BR open-mainframe-gdg (1)
.SH AUTHORS
OpenMainframe Contributors
